% Authoring Tips
% John Gabriele

If you're not sure where to begin, do this:

~~~
cd my-project
touch README.md
mkdir doc
cd doc
touch tutorial.md examples.md changes.md
~~~

Regarding those md files:

../README.md
  : Required. Should be your project's overview. Explain what your
    project is, what it does, and why folks would want to use it.  The
    content will render as the "front page" of your project's docs.
    If you prefer, you can have ../README.md be minimal, and instead
    put the bulk of the overview material into a doc/index.md file.

tutorial.md
  : For now can just be a walkthrough: detailed instructions, start to
    finish, on how to use some basic features of your project.

examples.md
  : Be sure to use syntax highlighting for your code snippets. If you
    have a lot of examples, skip the examples.md file and instead
    create an examples *directory* which you can then populate with
    *this-feature*.md and *that-feature*.md files. Likewise if you
    have multiple tutorials!

changes.md
  : It's much appreciated if you include dates with the version
    numbers. In this doc, summarize user-facing changes; if readers
    are interested in seeing individual *code* changes, they can
    always look at the version control logs.

Other ideas for documents you (or potential contributors) might write:

  * __cheatsheet.md__
  * __quick-ref.md__
  * __manual.md__ (though consider using multiple manual files in their
    own doc/manual subdirectory)
  * __reference.md__ (though, for software libraries, this is may be taken
    care of by autogenerated API docs)
