% Rippledoc
% John Gabriele
% 2016-10

**A particularly easy-to-use doc processing tool.**

Rippledoc is a command-line program which generates easily-navigable
html from a bunch of [Markdown](http://commonmark.org/)-formatted text
files. That is, it turns:

~~~
doc/
    index.md
    changes.md
    tutorial.md
    mumble/
        frob.md
~~~

into something like:

~~~
doc/
    index.md
    index.html
    changes.md
    changes.html
    tutorial.md
    tutorial.html
    mumble/
        frob.md
        frob.html
~~~

Rippledoc requires nearly zero configuration. You just run it in a
directory containing Markdown-formatted text files (see [more
info](more-info.html) for the few rules you've got to follow) and it
does the rest.

The main benefits of using Rippledoc rather than just having users
view your docs directly on a site like GitLab or GitHub are:

  * the docs resulting from Rippledoc are ordered (you can customize
    the order in your (autogenerated) toc.conf files), and
  * they're easily navigable. The side nav pane contains a full table
    of contents, and you can also click "next" and "prev" links to be
    taken you through every doc/chapter in your docs.
  * you can customize the styling if you like.

Under the hood, Rippledoc uses [Pandoc](http://pandoc.org/) to do the
markdown ➞ html conversion.

You can find the source located at
<https://gitlab.com/uvtc/rippledoc>.


OS Compatibility
================

The author has not given even a passing thought to running this
program on any OS other than GNU/Linux.



Quick Usage
===========

~~~bash
cd ~/my-project/doc
# Rippledoc needs an index.md and a _copyright file present, plus at
# least one other doc file.
touch _copyright index.md tutorial.md  # changes.md, ... others?
# Edit those files, then run Rippledoc here:
rippledoc.py
~~~

and point your browser to <file:///path/to/my-project/doc/index.html>
to see the results.

> Of course, [this site you're reading
> now](http://www.unexpected-vortices.com/sw/rippledoc/index.html) was
> generated using Rippledoc.

To upload your docs to a server, you might use rsync:

~~~bash
rsync -urv --delete /path/to/your-proj/doc you@remote:public_html/your-proj
~~~

That will put the local `doc` directory into the remote `your-proj`
directory.



License
=======

Copyright 2014--2018 John Gabriele

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
